-----------
Enki's "First Steps for new Players" Checklist
-----------

Formerly part of my Arc Guide, due to post limit reasons it's hosted here now.
Link to my Guide: https://www.pathofexile.com/forum/view-thread/1147951

-----------
Bookmark & use the following websites
-----------

http://pathofexile.gamepedia.com/Path_of_Exile_Wiki
Your place to go for any questions about the game, no matter if mechanics, item-related or whatever else.

http://poedb.tw/us/
Useful to look up datamined data such as enemy stats and stuff.

http://poe.trade/
Most popular shop indexer, use it to buy gear or pricecheck rare gear.
Beware of price-fixers, always check for average prices instead of cheapest listings!

http://currency.poe.trade/
Same as above, but for currency trades.

http://poe.ninja/
Use this site for pricechecks. Keep in mind that rolls can heavily affect the value of uniques with big variables.
100% perfect Uniques are often valuable, you can check if yours is perfect by activating Advanced Mod Descriptions in the UI Settings and then holding Alt while hovering the item. Also has a builds section to look at all public profile builds within the Top 15000.

http://www.poelab.com/
Shows the current Labyrinth layouts, services and other important stuff.

https://www.pathofexile.com/forum/view-thread/1489756
A very comprehensive guide explaining everything about Maps.

http://poeaffix.net/
Great resource to look up possible affixes, ilvl requirements and roll ranges for gear.

-----------
Path of Building
-----------

This tool is so good that it deserves its own section!

It's a build planner that allows you to do basically anything and shows you in detail how each change affects the build.
The configuration tab lets you emulate all kinds of mapmods and other possible scenarios to see their impact.
There's lots of example gear and all existing uniques included, and you can easily import or create custom gear.
Speaking of importing, you can even import your own characters or anyone elses as long as their profile is public,
or just directly import a complete setup, or share yours through the built-in build code function.

There's so much more that i've probably forgot to mention, best is to just play around with the tool and see for yourself!

You can learn more about it and get the tool from its forum thread:
https://www.pathofexile.com/forum/view-thread/1716360

-----------
Random Advices
-----------

‣ Use the help panel: This is a feature that you can find on the lower right next to the shop button, and should be helpful with many different aspects of the game.

‣ Learn recipes: Path of Exile offers a huge recipe system which you can use for your advantage - if you know all the good recipes.
http://pathofexile.gamepedia.com/Vendor_recipe_system

‣ Use an item filter: You can find most relevant filters including a preview of each at http://filterblast.oversoul.xyz/ 
Neversinks is the most popular choice and can be easily customized at http://www.filterblade.xyz/

‣ Level your masters: Elreon, Haku and Catarina can all substantially help you while gearing. Zana is very helpful once you hit endgame maps and should have a fixed spot in your hideout.

‣ Make use of crafting benches: After having unlocked masters by leveling them up once, you gain access to their crafting bench which you can place into your hideout.

‣ Level gems: Make use of your secondary weapon slot to level a few copies of Arc, or other popular gems to vaal or sell. 
Even if technically not active, these gems will gain experience. 

‣ Use the attack-in-place function: This will prevent you from accidentally walking into danger while namelocking something.
You can activate this seperately for each skill by left-clicking their icon in your skillbar and checking the small box.
It's mostly worth doing with your movement skills, but also helpful with your main skill on a ranged character.

‣ Buy tabs: this is only relevant for people who intend to spend money on this game, everyone else can ignore this.
Our default stash space is fairly limited, if you plan to play a lot it's worth considering to expand your stash.
The Currency- and Map Tab can be seen as essentials to make your life easier, a Quad Tab makes a good dump tab.
Premium Tab Bundles are good if you want to expand your stash space to neatly store things in their assigned tabs.
All other specialized tabs are mostly just worth it for hoarders, with the Divination Card tab being the most useful.
If you're patient enough, i'd recommend to wait for the monthly Stash Tab Sale weekend to stock up on tabs at a discount.

‣ Create a shop: Setting up a shop with https://github.com/xyzz/acquisition/releases or through Premium Stash Tabs will help you selling stuff to buy upgrades for yourself. This guide can help you to find out what is valuable: https://www.pathofexile.com/forum/view-thread/797699

‣ Don't use the trade macro: It's a helpful pricechecking tool and I don't want to discredit it, but it has a huge flaw: it can't take specific conditions into account, which may rapidly increase the value of an item. Some people shamelessly exploit this and will snatch any mispriced items, just to resell them for their actual value. Better check prices manually if you're unsure.

‣ Only take currency while trading: Do not, under no circumstances trade valuable items for other items, if offered! 
There's a group of people manipulating prices with the intention to scam new players out of their valuable stuff.

‣ Real Money Trading is against the ToS: As with any online game with an economy, this unfortunately exists aswell in Path of Exile.
It's strictly prohibited and will get you banned! I know there's atleast one website using my build to lure newer players into this,
don't fall for it and if you can, report anyone who tries to get you into this! No sympathy from my side for anyone who gets banned!

‣ Additional Guides: Engineering Eternity is a Youtube channel with video guides explaining many things and is worth checking out!
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCaFHfrY-6uGSAvmczp_7a6Q

‣ Don't give up: Path of Exile can be very harsh, even for people with experience in ARPG's. 
So don't give up if something seems too difficult or you made some mistakes, and rather try to learn from the situation.
 
‣ Have Fun: While Path of Exile has an overall great community, there are always some black sheep around. But seriously, screw all that. Having fun is all that should matter to you in a videogame, so play what and how you want, not how someone else wants you to!

‣ Don't push yourself too much: In my opinion, beginners don't need to faceroll all content with their very first character.
While it's possible to kill all bosses with this build, it's not as easy and cheap as some other builds may be able to do it. 
You can of course try it to get a first taste, but always remember that it's ok if you fail - just use it as learning experience.

The meta goes into an "extreme efficiency" direction, everything needs to get faster and at some point even breathing will be seen as "inefficient". Some streams directly advertise this and there's players that look down at everyone who doesn't play this way. 
I'm not a fan of this, it's very unhealthy and will exhaust you both mentally and physically, even if you don't immediatly notice it.
Therefore, I won't advertise this kind of playstyle and have designed my build accordingly. Take some breaks, people!

Another thing I want to address is the "get rich" mentality. It's not necessary to swim in currency, you won't ever need it for anything than a few ultra highend items, and once you're at the point where those are the only real upgrade you will already have amassed enough currency by just playing the game. This particular build is designed to start cheap, so that you can jump right into maps and farm for upgrades. 

That said, EVERY SINGLE BUILD IN THIS GAME can get better with investment, and at some point this will get expensive!
